Ram Prasad
Principal Software Engineer

Chennai
9620582351

Principal Software Engineer with over 8 years of extensive experience in Front-end Focused Full Stack Web Development. 

  Developed and deployed multiple web applications using React.js and improved website performance by optimizing HTML, CSS, and JavaScript code, resulting in a 30% reduction in page load time and an enhanced user experience.
  Leveraged Node.js and Express.js to optimize back-end processes, resulting in a reduction in server response time and an increase in overall system performance.
  Implemented AWS Cloud architecture for a client, resulting in a 40% reduction in infrastructure costs and improved reliability with auto-scaling and load balancing. (AWS Certified Solutions Architect)
  Streamlined the deployment process by implementing CI/CD pipelines with AWS Code Build and Deploy/Gitlab CI Pipeline and Docker, reducing deployment time and ensuring consistent and reliable releases.
  Acted as a mentor to junior developers, providing guidance and training on best practices for front-end/full stack development.
  Actively participated in Agile development, daily stand-ups, sprint planning, and retrospective meetings.


PERSONAL INFORMATION
  Address: , Chennai, 
  Nationality: 
  Driving License: 
  Hobbies: 

SOCIAL PROFILES
  * LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/ramprasad94
  * AWS Certification Badges: https://www.credly.com/users/ramprasad94

LANGUAGES

SKILLS
  ★★★★★ React
  ★★★★★ HTML5
  ★★★★★ CSS3
  ★★★★★ JavaScript
  ★★★★★ AWS Solution Architecture
  ★★★★★ Express.js
  ★★★★☆ Node.js
  ★★★★☆ SQL

WORK EXPERIENCE
  * July 2021 – Present
    Principal Software Enginneer at  Innova Solutions, Chennai
      
  Designed and developed full-stack web applications using React JS as Frontend and Express/Node JS as Backend.
  Created Rest API services and integrated with PostgreSQL as the database to create a single web portal with user management capabilities.
  Integrated different BI tools like Superset and Spotfire to view Analytic Dashboards.
  Designed and created cloud infrastructure for hosting UI and API Services using AWS CloudFormation. Dockerized React and Express/Node JS application for deployment in AWS Elastic Container-Fargate Service.

Skills: Reactjs, Redux, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Express.js, Node.js, SQL, AWS, TypeScript, SCSS,  React Query, CI/CD, Docker, Git and Jest.

  * October 2020 – June 2021
    Senior Software Development Engineer  at  Squareshift, Chennai
      
  Designed and implemented Reporting features for a complex application using React. These features connect with the AWS Datalake and provide sophisticated reporting dashboards for comprehensive data analysis.
  Optimized and maintained a Datalake infrastructure through utilization of Athena, Glue, Lambda, API Gateway, S3, and Spark. Continuously enhanced and maintained its functionality to ensure optimal data efficiency.

Skills: React.js, AWS Datalake, PySpark, Amazon Athena, Elasticsearch and Python,

  * December 2018 – September 2020
     Software Development Engineer  at  Coda Global, Chennai
      
  Developed web application utilizing Angular for Frontend design for process/workflow management application.
  Designed and implemented AWS cloud-based solutions for GPS IOT tracking application.
  Contributed as a subject matter expert in DevOps and Automation in AWS environment, utilizing expertise in architectural design and implementing best practices to ensure optimal performance.

Skills: Angular, Pulumi - Infrastructure as code (IaC), CI/CD, Docker, Material UI and AWS.

  * October 2015 – November 2018
     Senior Systems Engineer at  Infosys Limited, Trivandrum
      
  Developed multiple Web and Mobile applications using Angular, React, Ionic, and React Native technologies.

Skills: Reactjs, Angular, Ionic Framework, React Native, Bootstrap, TypeScript, SCSS and Apache Cordova


EDUCATION
  * May 2015
    St. Joseph&#39;s College of Engineering, Chennai Bachelor of Engineering

AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS
CERTIFICATIONS
  * AWS Certified Solution Architect Professional, , 
  * AWS Certified DevOps Professional , , 
  * AWS Certified Machine Learning Specialty, , 
PROJECTS
